docs/src/docs/asciidoc/01-setup-project/setup-project.adoc, before:

[[setup-project]]
= Setting Up the Project

Before starting the development, you need to set up the project.
This includes:

* Creating a new project on GitHub based on an existing GitHub template
* Setting up your development environment, either by installing all the needed tools manually, or installing a few tools and relying on VSCode and Dev Containers (easier as everything is set up for you).

== Using the GitHub Template

Open {template-github-url}[this GitHub repository,window=_blank] and click on `Use this template`.

image::../images/github-template.png[Screenshot of GitHub showing the "Use this template" button]

You will be redirected to the repository creation page.
Select the owner of the repository, enter a name for your new repository (eg.
`aca-java-runtimes-workshop`), set the repo visibility to `public` and click on `Create repository from template`.

Once the repository is created, you have 3 options to work on the project:

- You can work locally using your preferred IDE, but you will need to install all the tools manually.

- You can work directly in https://github.com/features/codespaces[GitHub Codespaces], without having to install anything on your machine.

- You can work locally using VSCode, Docker and https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers[Dev Containers], so you have a pre-configured development environment.

All these options are described in the following sections, pick the one that suits you best.

If you want to work locally, first you need to clone the project on your machine using git (you can skip these steps if you choose to use GitHub Codespaces).

1.
Select the **Code** button, then copy your repository url.

image::../images/github-clone.png[Screenshot of GitHub showing the repository URL]

2.
Open a terminal and run:

[source,shell]
----
git clone <your_repo_url>
----

// Setup manually
include::setup-manually.adoc[]
<<<

== Setting Up Your Environment in GitHub Codespaces

GitHub Codespaces[https://github.com/features/codespaces] allows you to have an instant dev environment already prepared for this workshop.

[NOTE]
====
Codespaces includes up to 60 hours of free usage per month for all GitHub users, see [the pricing details here](https://github.com/features/codespaces).
====

After your project created on GitHub, select the **Code** button, then the **Codespaces** tab and click on **Create Codespaces on main**.

image::../images/create-codespaces.png[Screenshot of GitHub showing the Codespaces creation]

This will start the creation of a dev container environment, which is a pre-configured container with all the needed tools installed. Once it's ready, you have everything you need to start coding for this workshop.

== Setting Up Your Environment with VSCode and Dev Containers

If you have VS Code and Docker installed on your machine, a quick way to set up your environment is to use the pre-configured https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers[Dev Containers] of the template project.
Install the https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.vscode-remote-extensionpack[Remote Development extension] in VS Code.

[TIP]
====
You can learn more about Dev Containers in https://learn.microsoft.com/shows/beginners-series-to-dev-containers/[this video series].
https://containers.dev[Check the website] and https://github.com/devcontainers/spec[the specification] if you want to know all the details of Dev Containers.
====

image::../images/vscode-install.png[Screenshot of the VSCode Marketplace showing the Remote Development extension]

Click on the green *Install* button.
This opens VSCode on the plugin page, ready to install the Remote Development extension.
Click on *Install*
Then, open your project in VSCode.
Open the *Command Palette* (View -> Command Palette) and enter "Rebuild and Reopen in Container".

image::../images/vscode-command-pallette.png[]

The first time it will take some time to download and setup the container image, meanwhile you can go ahead and read the next sections.

image::../images/vscode-install-containers.png[]

Once the container is ready, you will see the following message in the bottom right corner of VSCode:

image::../images/vscode-connected.png[]

== Building the Initial Project

No matter if you have installed the tools manually or used the Dev Containers, you can now build the initial project.
Go to the directory where you cloned the repository and build the code with the following Maven command (careful, the first invocation of `mvn install` can take a while):

[source,shell]
----
cd <your_repo_url>
mvn install
----

You should see the following output:

[source,shell]
----
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] Reactor Summary:
[INFO]
[INFO] Azure Container Apps and Java Runtimes Workshop 1.0.0-SNAPSHOT SUCCESS
[INFO] Azure Container Apps and Java Runtimes Workshop :: Micronaut 1.0.0-SNAPSHOT SUCCESS
[INFO] Azure Container Apps and Java Runtimes Workshop :: Springboot 1.0.0-SNAPSHOT  SUCCESS
[INFO] Azure Container Apps and Java Runtimes Workshop :: Quarkus 1.0.0-SNAPSHOT SUCCESS
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] BUILD SUCCESS
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] Total time:  16.097 s
[INFO] Finished at: 2022-10-07T09:46:16+02:00
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
----

[WARNING]
====
If `mvn install` doesn't manage to download the dependencies, you might need to configure your proxy settings, or you might have a different `settings.xml`.
Check if you have a file called `settings.xml` in your `~/.m2` directory.
If you do, check if it contains a `<proxies>` section and if it's the right one.
If you are not sure, try removing (or renaming) the `settings.xml` file and try again doing a `mvn install`.
====

Now that you have your development environment setup and that you can build the initial code, let's develop our three microservices.

Commit message:

Rename images/ folder into assets/

docs/src/docs/asciidoc/01-setup-project/setup-project.adoc, after:

[[setup-project]]
= Setting Up the Project

Before starting the development, you need to set up the project.
This includes:

* Creating a new project on GitHub based on an existing GitHub template
* Setting up your development environment, either by installing all the needed tools manually, or installing a few tools and relying on VSCode and Dev Containers (easier as everything is set up for you).

== Using the GitHub Template

Open {template-github-url}[this GitHub repository,window=_blank] and click on `Use this template`.

image::../assets/github-template.png[Screenshot of GitHub showing the "Use this template" button]

You will be redirected to the repository creation page.
Select the owner of the repository, enter a name for your new repository (eg.
`aca-java-runtimes-workshop`), set the repo visibility to `public` and click on `Create repository from template`.

Once the repository is created, you have 3 options to work on the project:

- You can work locally using your preferred IDE, but you will need to install all the tools manually.

- You can work directly in https://github.com/features/codespaces[GitHub Codespaces], without having to install anything on your machine.

- You can work locally using VSCode, Docker and https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers[Dev Containers], so you have a pre-configured development environment.

All these options are described in the following sections, pick the one that suits you best.

If you want to work locally, first you need to clone the project on your machine using git (you can skip these steps if you choose to use GitHub Codespaces).

1.
Select the **Code** button, then copy your repository url.

image::../assets/github-clone.png[Screenshot of GitHub showing the repository URL]

2.
Open a terminal and run:

[source,shell]
----
git clone <your_repo_url>
----

// Setup manually
include::setup-manually.adoc[]
<<<

== Setting Up Your Environment in GitHub Codespaces

https://github.com/features/codespaces[GitHub Codespaces] allows you to have an instant dev environment already prepared for this workshop.

[NOTE]
====
Codespaces includes up to 60 hours of free usage per month for all GitHub users, see [the pricing details here](https://github.com/features/codespaces).
====

After your project created on GitHub, select the **Code** button, then the **Codespaces** tab and click on **Create Codespaces on main**.

image::../assets/create-codespaces.png[Screenshot of GitHub showing the Codespaces creation]

This will start the creation of a dev container environment, which is a pre-configured container with all the needed tools installed. Once it's ready, you have everything you need to start coding for this workshop.

== Setting Up Your Environment with VSCode and Dev Containers

If you have VS Code and Docker installed on your machine, a quick way to set up your environment is to use the pre-configured https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers[Dev Containers] of the template project.
Install the https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.vscode-remote-extensionpack[Remote Development extension] in VS Code.

[TIP]
====
You can learn more about Dev Containers in https://learn.microsoft.com/shows/beginners-series-to-dev-containers/[this video series].
https://containers.dev[Check the website] and https://github.com/devcontainers/spec[the specification] if you want to know all the details of Dev Containers.
====

image::../assets/vscode-install.png[Screenshot of the VSCode Marketplace showing the Remote Development extension]

Click on the green *Install* button.
This opens VSCode on the plugin page, ready to install the Remote Development extension.
Click on *Install*
Then, open your project in VSCode.
Open the *Command Palette* (View -> Command Palette) and enter "Rebuild and Reopen in Container".

image::../assets/vscode-command-pallette.png[]

The first time it will take some time to download and setup the container image, meanwhile you can go ahead and read the next sections.

image::../assets/vscode-install-containers.png[]

Once the container is ready, you will see the following message in the bottom right corner of VSCode:

image::../assets/vscode-connected.png[]

== Building the Initial Project

No matter if you have installed the tools manually or used the Dev Containers, you can now build the initial project.
Go to the directory where you cloned the repository and build the code with the following Maven command (careful, the first invocation of `mvn install` can take a while):

[source,shell]
----
cd <your_repo_url>
mvn install
----

You should see the following output:

[source,shell]
----
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] Reactor Summary:
[INFO]
[INFO] Azure Container Apps and Java Runtimes Workshop 1.0.0-SNAPSHOT SUCCESS
[INFO] Azure Container Apps and Java Runtimes Workshop :: Micronaut 1.0.0-SNAPSHOT SUCCESS
[INFO] Azure Container Apps and Java Runtimes Workshop :: Springboot 1.0.0-SNAPSHOT  SUCCESS
[INFO] Azure Container Apps and Java Runtimes Workshop :: Quarkus 1.0.0-SNAPSHOT SUCCESS
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] BUILD SUCCESS
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] Total time:  16.097 s
[INFO] Finished at: 2022-10-07T09:46:16+02:00
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
----

[WARNING]
====
If `mvn install` doesn't manage to download the dependencies, you might need to configure your proxy settings, or you might have a different `settings.xml`.
Check if you have a file called `settings.xml` in your `~/.m2` directory.
If you do, check if it contains a `<proxies>` section and if it's the right one.
If you are not sure, try removing (or renaming) the `settings.xml` file and try again doing a `mvn install`.
====

Now that you have your development environment setup and that you can build the initial code, let's develop our three microservices.
