docs/src/docs/asciidoc/08-native/native.adoc, before:

[[native]]
= Going Native

In this section you will:

* Learn what GraalVM is, and what is a native build
* Build a GraalVM native image of the Quarkus application, and deploy it
* Build a GraalVM native image of the Micronaut application, and deploy it
* Build a GraalVM native image of the Spring Boot application, and deploy it

The 3 native image builds are extremely similar, so don't be surprised if there is some repetition in the instructions.

== What is GraalVM

GraalVM is a new technology, allowing to create a native build of a Java application:
your application will be compiled to a native executable, and will not need a JVM to run.
That executable will be specific to your operating system, and will start much faster than with a JVM.

You can find more information on GraalVM at https://www.graalvm.org/[https://www.graalvm.org/].

As those builds are specific to your OS, you will be able to create a specific one on your machine, but unless you're using Linux, that executable will not work on Docker, or in Azure Container Apps (except for Quarkus who uses a little trick).

In order to have a native executable build on Linux, we will use again GitHub Actions.

== Setting Up our Native Build Environment

To build native images of our 3 microservices, we will use a local GraalVM as well as different GitHub Actions.
Let's install GraalVM first and then build the native images.

=== Installing GraalVM Locally

We're going to use GraalVM Community Edition, which is free to use.

In order to use GraalVM, you will need to set it up using the instructions available at https://www.graalvm.org/22.3/docs/getting-started/#install-graalvm[https://www.graalvm.org/22.3/docs/getting-started/#install-graalvm].

As you will probably need to set up the `JAVA_HOME` and the `PATH` environment variables several times, you can set up an alias that would make this easier, for example:

[source,shell]
----
alias graalvm="export JAVA_HOME=/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/graalvm-ce-java19-22.3.1/Contents/Home && export PATH=/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/graalvm-ce-java19-22.3.1/Contents/Home/bin:$PATH && java -version"
----

=== GitHub Actions setup

We are going to create 3 new GitHub Actions, one per native build.
As native builds are much slower than JVM builds, this will allow us to have a faster feedback loop.

As native builds will replace the JVM builds, you need to disable the existing GitHub Action:

- In the GitHub UI, go to the `Actions` tab
- Click on the `Build and deploy to Azure Container Apps` workflow
- Select the `...` button, and click on `Disable workflow`

image::../assets/github-actions-disable.png[Disable GitHub Actions]

== Building the Native Image of the Quarkus Application

First, let's build a local native build of the Quarkus application.
Go to the `quarkus-app` directory, and run the following command:

[source,shell]
----
mvn -Pnative package
----

In your `target` folder, this should create a binary called `quarkus-app-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT-runner`.
Before executing it, you need to start the PostgreSQL database.
When you package a Quarkus application with `mvn package` (JVM or native), Quarkus turns out to be using the production profile (`%prod`) and needs a PostgreSQL to be up and running and configured.
For that, you first need to configure the `application.properties` file with the right PostgreSQL URL.
Add the following properties to the `quarkus-app/src/main/resources/application.properties` file:

[source,properties]
----
include::{project-root}/quarkus-app/src/main/resources/application.properties[tag=adocProdProperties]
----

Then start the database by executing the following command under the `infrastructure` directory:

[source,shell]
----
docker compose -f postgres.yaml up
----

You can now execute the native binary of the Quarkus application under the `quarkus-app` directory with the following command:

[source,shell]
----
./target/quarkus-app-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT-runner
----

You should see the application starting very fast, and work in a similar way as the JVM build.
This means that you can execute the same curl commands as before:

[source,shell]
----
curl 'localhost:8701/quarkus'

curl 'localhost:8701/quarkus/cpu?iterations=10&db=true&desc=native'

curl 'localhost:8701/quarkus/memory?bites=10&db=true&desc=native'
----

=== Deploying the Native Build of the Quarkus Application

Now, let's create a GitHub Action that will build a native image of the Quarkus application, and deploy it.

First, let's create a new workflow.
Go to the `.github/workflows` directory, create a new file called `deploy-quarkus-native.yml` and add the following code:

[source,yaml]
----
include::{project-root}/.github/workflows/deploy-quarkus-native.yml[]
----

[WARNING]
====
Don't forget to replace the value of the `REGISTRY_URL` environment variable with the value of the `$REGISTRY_URL` variable that you copied earlier.
Use the command `echo $REGISTRY_URL` to get the value of the variable.
====

You can now `git push` your changes, and this new workflow should build a native image, and deploy this native image instead of the JVM image.

image::../assets/github-actions-native.png[Native build workflow]

Good.
Let's now create the same workflow for the Micronaut and Spring Boot applications before we do some performance tuning again.

== Building the Native Image of the Micronaut Application

Now, Let's do the same for Micronaut.
Let's build a local native build of the Micronaut application.
Go to the `micronaut-app` directory and execute the following command:

[source,shell]
----
mvn package -Dpackaging=native-image
----

In your `target` folder, this should create a binary called `./target/micronaut-app`.
You can execute it with the following command (make sure the PostgreSQL database is running `docker compose -f postgres.yaml up`):

[source,shell]
----
./target/micronaut-app
----

You should see the application starting very fast, and work in a similar way as the JVM build.
Execute the following curl commands to make sure it works:

[source,shell]
----
curl 'localhost:8702/micronaut'

curl 'localhost:8702/micronaut/cpu?iterations=10&db=true&desc=native'

curl 'localhost:8702/micronaut/memory?bites=10&db=true&desc=native'
----

=== Deploying the Native Build of the Micronaut Application

Now, let's create a GitHub Action that will build a native image of the Micronaut application, and deploy it.

Create a new workflow in the `.github/workflows/deploy-micronaut-native.yml` file:

[source,yaml]
----
include::{project-root}/.github/workflows/deploy-micronaut-native.yml[]
----

[WARNING]
====
Don't forget to replace the value of the `REGISTRY_URL` environment variable with the value of the `$REGISTRY_URL` variable that you copied earlier.
Use the command `echo $REGISTRY_URL` to get the value of the variable.
====

You can now `git push` your changes, and this new workflow should build a native image, and deploy it instead of the JVM image.

== Building the Native Image of the Spring Boot Application

Now that we have our Quarkus and Micronaut native applications running, let's build a local native build for the Spring Boot application.
Go to the `springboot-app` directory and execute the following command:

[source,shell]
----
mvn -Pnative native:compile
----

In your `target` folder, this should create a binary called `springboot-app`.
Make sure you have the PostgreSQL database still up and running, and execute:

[source,shell]
----
./target/springboot-app
----

You should see the application starting faster than its JVM counter part.
Execute the following curl commands to make sure it works:

[source,shell]
----
curl 'localhost:8703/springboot'

curl 'localhost:8703/springboot/cpu?iterations=10&db=true&desc=native'

curl 'localhost:8703/springboot/memory?bites=10&db=true&desc=native'
----

=== Deploying the Native Build of the Spring Boot Application

Now, let's create a GitHub Action that will build a native image of the Spring Boot application, and deploy it.

First, create a new workflow: create a new file called `.github/workflows/deploy-springboot-native.yml`:

[source,yaml]
----
include::{project-root}/.github/workflows/deploy-springboot-native.yml[]
----

[WARNING]
====
Don't forget to replace the value of the `REGISTRY_URL` environment variable with the value of the `$REGISTRY_URL` variable that you copied earlier.
Use the command `echo $REGISTRY_URL` to get the value of the variable.
====

You can now `git push` your changes, and this new workflow should build a native image, and deploy it instead of the JVM image.

[NOTE]
====
Building native images is very resource intensive, so it will take some time for all GitHub workflows to complete. Take a short break, you earned it 🙂!
====

== Load Testing the Native Images

After all your native images are built and deployed, let's run our load tests again.

In the Azure Portal, search for `lt-java-runtimes` and select the Azure Load Testing instance we created before.

image::../assets/search-load-testing.png[Search for the Load Testing instance]

Select *Tests* in the left menu, then select the test we created earlier.

image::../assets/load-testing-run.png[Screenshot of the Load Testing interface showing the "run" button]

Click *Run* to start the tests again.

== Monitoring the Native Images

Once the load tests are done, let's take a look at the results.

In the Azure Portal, select the *Dashboard* in the side menu, and select the "Java Runtimes" dashboard we created earlier.

You should now see the results of the load tests for the native images, and you can compare them to the previous results of the JVM images.

image::../assets/java-runtimes-dashboard-native.png[Screenshot of the Java Runtimes dashboard with JVM vs native tests]

Commit message:

Add Java version and notes for CS

docs/src/docs/asciidoc/08-native/native.adoc, after:

[[native]]
= Going Native

In this section you will:

* Learn what GraalVM is, and what is a native build
* Build a GraalVM native image of the Quarkus application, and deploy it
* Build a GraalVM native image of the Micronaut application, and deploy it
* Build a GraalVM native image of the Spring Boot application, and deploy it

The 3 native image builds are extremely similar, so don't be surprised if there is some repetition in the instructions.

== What is GraalVM

GraalVM is a new technology, allowing to create a native build of a Java application:
your application will be compiled to a native executable, and will not need a JVM to run.
That executable will be specific to your operating system, and will start much faster than with a JVM.

You can find more information on GraalVM at https://www.graalvm.org/[https://www.graalvm.org/].

As those builds are specific to your OS, you will be able to create a specific one on your machine, but unless you're using Linux, that executable will not work on Docker, or in Azure Container Apps (except for Quarkus who uses a little trick).

In order to have a native executable build on Linux, we will use again GitHub Actions.

== Setting Up our Native Build Environment

To build native images of our 3 microservices, we will use a local GraalVM as well as different GitHub Actions.
Let's install GraalVM first and then build the native images.

=== Installing GraalVM Locally

We're going to use GraalVM Community Edition, which is free to use.

In order to use GraalVM, you will need to set it up for Java {jdk-version} using the instructions available at https://www.graalvm.org/22.3/docs/getting-started/#install-graalvm[https://www.graalvm.org/22.3/docs/getting-started/#install-graalvm].

[NOTE]
====
If you're using GitHub Codespaces or a dev container, you need to select the **Linux** variant.
====

As you will probably need to set up the `JAVA_HOME` and the `PATH` environment variables several times, you can set up an alias that would make this easier, for example:

[source,shell]
----
alias graalvm="export JAVA_HOME=/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/graalvm-ce-java19-22.3.1/Contents/Home && export PATH=/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/graalvm-ce-java19-22.3.1/Contents/Home/bin:$PATH && java -version"
----

=== GitHub Actions setup

We are going to create 3 new GitHub Actions, one per native build.
As native builds are much slower than JVM builds, this will allow us to have a faster feedback loop.

As native builds will replace the JVM builds, you need to disable the existing GitHub Action:

- In the GitHub UI, go to the `Actions` tab
- Click on the `Build and deploy to Azure Container Apps` workflow
- Select the `...` button, and click on `Disable workflow`

image::../assets/github-actions-disable.png[Disable GitHub Actions]

== Building the Native Image of the Quarkus Application

First, let's build a local native build of the Quarkus application.
Go to the `quarkus-app` directory, and run the following command:

[source,shell]
----
mvn -Pnative package
----

In your `target` folder, this should create a binary called `quarkus-app-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT-runner`.
Before executing it, you need to start the PostgreSQL database.
When you package a Quarkus application with `mvn package` (JVM or native), Quarkus turns out to be using the production profile (`%prod`) and needs a PostgreSQL to be up and running and configured.
For that, you first need to configure the `application.properties` file with the right PostgreSQL URL.
Add the following properties to the `quarkus-app/src/main/resources/application.properties` file:

[source,properties]
----
include::{project-root}/quarkus-app/src/main/resources/application.properties[tag=adocProdProperties]
----

Then start the database by executing the following command under the `infrastructure` directory:

[source,shell]
----
docker compose -f postgres.yaml up
----

You can now execute the native binary of the Quarkus application under the `quarkus-app` directory with the following command:

[source,shell]
----
./target/quarkus-app-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT-runner
----

You should see the application starting very fast, and work in a similar way as the JVM build.
This means that you can execute the same curl commands as before:

[source,shell]
----
curl 'localhost:8701/quarkus'

curl 'localhost:8701/quarkus/cpu?iterations=10&db=true&desc=native'

curl 'localhost:8701/quarkus/memory?bites=10&db=true&desc=native'
----

=== Deploying the Native Build of the Quarkus Application

Now, let's create a GitHub Action that will build a native image of the Quarkus application, and deploy it.

First, let's create a new workflow.
Go to the `.github/workflows` directory, create a new file called `deploy-quarkus-native.yml` and add the following code:

[source,yaml]
----
include::{project-root}/.github/workflows/deploy-quarkus-native.yml[]
----

[WARNING]
====
Don't forget to replace the value of the `REGISTRY_URL` environment variable with the value of the `$REGISTRY_URL` variable that you copied earlier.
Use the command `echo $REGISTRY_URL` to get the value of the variable.
====

You can now `git push` your changes, and this new workflow should build a native image, and deploy this native image instead of the JVM image.

image::../assets/github-actions-native.png[Native build workflow]

Good.
Let's now create the same workflow for the Micronaut and Spring Boot applications before we do some performance tuning again.

== Building the Native Image of the Micronaut Application

Now, Let's do the same for Micronaut.
Let's build a local native build of the Micronaut application.
Go to the `micronaut-app` directory and execute the following command:

[source,shell]
----
mvn package -Dpackaging=native-image
----

In your `target` folder, this should create a binary called `./target/micronaut-app`.
You can execute it with the following command (make sure the PostgreSQL database is running `docker compose -f postgres.yaml up`):

[source,shell]
----
./target/micronaut-app
----

You should see the application starting very fast, and work in a similar way as the JVM build.
Execute the following curl commands to make sure it works:

[source,shell]
----
curl 'localhost:8702/micronaut'

curl 'localhost:8702/micronaut/cpu?iterations=10&db=true&desc=native'

curl 'localhost:8702/micronaut/memory?bites=10&db=true&desc=native'
----

=== Deploying the Native Build of the Micronaut Application

Now, let's create a GitHub Action that will build a native image of the Micronaut application, and deploy it.

Create a new workflow in the `.github/workflows/deploy-micronaut-native.yml` file:

[source,yaml]
----
include::{project-root}/.github/workflows/deploy-micronaut-native.yml[]
----

[WARNING]
====
Don't forget to replace the value of the `REGISTRY_URL` environment variable with the value of the `$REGISTRY_URL` variable that you copied earlier.
Use the command `echo $REGISTRY_URL` to get the value of the variable.
====

You can now `git push` your changes, and this new workflow should build a native image, and deploy it instead of the JVM image.

== Building the Native Image of the Spring Boot Application

Now that we have our Quarkus and Micronaut native applications running, let's build a local native build for the Spring Boot application.
Go to the `springboot-app` directory and execute the following command:

[source,shell]
----
mvn -Pnative native:compile
----

In your `target` folder, this should create a binary called `springboot-app`.
Make sure you have the PostgreSQL database still up and running, and execute:

[source,shell]
----
./target/springboot-app
----

You should see the application starting faster than its JVM counter part.
Execute the following curl commands to make sure it works:

[source,shell]
----
curl 'localhost:8703/springboot'

curl 'localhost:8703/springboot/cpu?iterations=10&db=true&desc=native'

curl 'localhost:8703/springboot/memory?bites=10&db=true&desc=native'
----

=== Deploying the Native Build of the Spring Boot Application

Now, let's create a GitHub Action that will build a native image of the Spring Boot application, and deploy it.

First, create a new workflow: create a new file called `.github/workflows/deploy-springboot-native.yml`:

[source,yaml]
----
include::{project-root}/.github/workflows/deploy-springboot-native.yml[]
----

[WARNING]
====
Don't forget to replace the value of the `REGISTRY_URL` environment variable with the value of the `$REGISTRY_URL` variable that you copied earlier.
Use the command `echo $REGISTRY_URL` to get the value of the variable.
====

You can now `git push` your changes, and this new workflow should build a native image, and deploy it instead of the JVM image.

[NOTE]
====
Building native images is very resource intensive, so it will take some time for all GitHub workflows to complete. Take a short break, you earned it 🙂!
====

== Load Testing the Native Images

After all your native images are built and deployed, let's run our load tests again.

In the Azure Portal, search for `lt-java-runtimes` and select the Azure Load Testing instance we created before.

image::../assets/search-load-testing.png[Search for the Load Testing instance]

Select *Tests* in the left menu, then select the test we created earlier.

image::../assets/load-testing-run.png[Screenshot of the Load Testing interface showing the "run" button]

Click *Run* to start the tests again.

== Monitoring the Native Images

Once the load tests are done, let's take a look at the results.

In the Azure Portal, select the *Dashboard* in the side menu, and select the "Java Runtimes" dashboard we created earlier.

You should now see the results of the load tests for the native images, and you can compare them to the previous results of the JVM images.

image::../assets/java-runtimes-dashboard-native.png[Screenshot of the Java Runtimes dashboard with JVM vs native tests]
